Golem certificates manual (#194)
golemfactory/yagna-docs: requestor-tutorials/vm-runtime/golem-certificates.md

# Golem-certificates

## Installing cli tool

Prerequisites:

- [Rust toolchain](https://rustup.rs/)
- Git

```bash
git clone https://github.com/golemfactory/golem-certificate
cargo install --path golem-certificate/cli
```

After that, in other terminal enter UI tool by typing:

```bash
golem-certificate-cli ui
```

## Generating key-pair

Create new key-pair in `Create key pair` option in main menu and name files appropriately.

## Generating root certificate

Prerequisites:

- key-pair for your root certificate

Navigate to `Create certificate` option.

> After that, put your propertiies as needed (Key usage, Validity period, Permissions and subject information) and enter your generated **public** key.

Reviewer: Here it would be worth mentioning that `Key usage` must include `sign certificate`.

Now you are able to sign your certificate.
Enter your **private** key to "Signing key" field and set "Signing certificate" as `Self-signed`.

## Generating intermediate certificate

Prerequisites:

- key-pair for your certificate certificate
- root certificate entity which will sign your certificate template

Navigate to `Create certificate` option.
After that, put your propertiies as needed (Key usage, Validity period, Permissions and subject information) and enter your generated **public** key.

Then you should save your certificate as template, and send it to root certificate entity which will sign it for you.

## Signing certificate

Prerequisites:

- key-pair for your certificate which will sign other certificate

> - your certificate with appropriate `key-usage`

Reviewer: maybe instead of appropriate, write that it needs the sign certificate key usage

- template of certificate which you want to sign

> Navigate to `Create certificate` option and load from desired template.

Reviewer: Maybe add a line to check that the template does not request more permissions / key usage / validity period than the signing certificate has. or at least mention that during the signing process there will be an error if it is the case.

Enter your **private** key to "Signing key" field and then `Load signing certificate` from file in the "Signing certificate" field.

## Generating node-descriptor

Prerequisites:

- your node-id

Navigate to `Create node descriptor` option.
After that, put your properties as needed (your node-id, appropriate permissions and validity period).

Then you should save your certificate as template, and send it to certificate entity which will sign it for you.

## Signing node-descriptor

Prerequisites:

- key-pair for your certificate which will sign node-descriptor
- your certificate with appropriate `key-usage`
- node-descriptor template

Navigate to `Create node descriptor` option and load from desired template.

> Enter your **private** key to "Signing key" field and then `Load signing certificate` from file in the "Signing certificate" field.

Reviewer: I think it is worth mentioning that a 'template' can be a signed node-descriptor / certificate.

In case someone creating a bunch of similar node-descriptors, they can load one as a template and just change the node id.

# Golem-certificates

> ## Installing cli tool

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Installing the cli tool
```

Prerequisites:

- [Rust toolchain](https://rustup.rs/)
- Git

```bash
git clone https://github.com/golemfactory/golem-certificate
cargo install --path golem-certificate/cli
```

> After that, in other terminal enter UI tool by typing:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After that, in another terminal, enter the UI tool by typing:
```

```bash
golem-certificate-cli ui
```

> ## Generating key-pair

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Generating a key-pair
```

> Create new key-pair in `Create key pair` option in main menu and name files appropriately.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a new key-pair using the `Create key pair` option in the main menu and name the files appropriately.
```

> ## Generating root certificate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Generating a root certificate
```

Prerequisites:

- key-pair for your root certificate

> Navigate to `Create certificate` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate to the `Create certificate` option.
```

After that, put your propertiies as needed (Key usage, Validity period, Permissions and subject information) and enter your generated **public** key.

> If your generated root certificate will be used to sign other certificates, be sure that you set `Key usage` to `All` or at least `Sign certificate` (or `Sign node` if you will use this certificate for signing node-descriptors).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your generated root certificate will be used to sign other certificates, be sure that you set `Key usage` to `All` or at least `Sign certificate` (or `Sign node` if you intend to use this certificate to sign node descriptors).
```

In general, it is advised that root certificates should have `Permissions` and `Key usage` set to `All`.

Now you are able to sign your certificate.

> Enter your **private** key to "Signing key" field and set "Signing certificate" as `Self-signed`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enter your **private** key into the "Signing key" field and set "Signing certificate" as `Self-signed`.
```

> ## Generating intermediate certificate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Generating an intermediate certificate
```

Prerequisites:

> - key-pair for your certificate certificate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- a key-pair for your certificate
```

> - root certificate entity which will sign your certificate template

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- a root certificate entity which will sign your certificate template
```

> Navigate to `Create certificate` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate to the `Create certificate` option.
```

After that, put your propertiies as needed (Key usage, Validity period, Permissions and subject information) and enter your generated **public** key.

> Then you should save your certificate as template, and send it to root certificate entity which will sign it for you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then you should save your certificate as a template, and send it to the root certificate entity which will sign it for you.
```

## Signing certificate

Prerequisites:

> - key-pair for your certificate which will sign other certificate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- a key-pair for your certificate which will sign another certificate
```

sounds awkward-ish...

> - your certificate with appropriate `Key usage` allowing it to sign certificates (`Sign certificate` field or `All`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- your certificate with an appropriate `Key usage`, allowing it to sign other certificates (`Sign certificate` field or `All`)
```

> - template of certificate which you want to sign

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- a template of the certificate you want to sign
```

> Firstly, check if certificate template which you got does not request more `Permissions`, `Key usage` or `Validity Period` than your certificate has.

Reviewer: I think it would be best to move if _after_ the template is loaded so the UI can be used for verification.

> Firstly, check if certificate template which you got does not request more `Permissions`, `Key usage` or `Validity Period` than your certificate has.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, check if the certificate template which you got does not request more `Permissions`, `Key usage` or `Validity Period` than your own certificate has.
```

> If template requests more, error will be returned in signing process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the template requests more, an error will be returned in signing process.
```

Navigate to `Create certificate` option and load from desired template.

> Enter your **private** key to "Signing key" field and then `Load signing certificate` from file in the "Signing certificate" field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enter your **private** key into the "Signing key" field and then `Load signing certificate` from a file in the "Signing certificate" field.
```

> ## Generating node-descriptor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Generating a node-descriptor
```

Prerequisites:

- your node-id

Navigate to `Create node descriptor` option.

> After that, put your properties as needed (your node-id, appropriate permissions and validity period).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After that, put your properties as needed (your node-id, appropriate permissions and the validity period).
```

> Then you should save your certificate as template, and send it to certificate entity which will sign it for you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then you should save your certificate as a template, and send it to the certificate entity which will sign it for you.
```

> ## Signing node-descriptor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Signing a node descriptor
```

Prerequisites:

> - key-pair for your certificate which will sign node-descriptor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- a key-pair for your certificate which will sign the node descriptor
```

- your certificate with appropriate `Key usage` allowing it to sign nodes (`Sign node` field or `All`)

> - node-descriptor template

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- a node descriptor template
```

> Firstly, check if node-descriptor template which you got does not request more `Permissions` or `Validity Period` than your certificate has.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, check if the node descriptor template which you got does not request more `Permissions` or `Validity Period`  than your own certificate has.
```

> If template requests more, error will be returned in signing process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the template requests more, an error will be returned in the signing process.
```

> Navigate to `Create node descriptor` option and load from desired template.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate to `Create node descriptor` option and load from the desired template.
```

> Enter your **private** key to "Signing key" field and then `Load signing certificate` from file in the "Signing certificate" field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enter your **private** key into the "Signing key" field and then `Load signing certificate` from the file into the "Signing certificate" field.
```
